All right, so the idea is we're gonna
create a script called run, and we're
gonna pass in some arguments, and the
script is gonna run zero or more scripts.
And I want to make sure that these scripts
are easily organized, easy to understand,
and so they're gonna be in
a subdirectory called runs.
All right,, pretty straightforward,
and I think we can all do that.
Let's see if you want to see
the full version of what I've done,
I here's the link out,
it's called primeGen/devonGitHub,
it's where I have all my stuff.
I actually think that I'm writing this
one a bit better than the one that I
currently have, because this one
is me practicing for a course.
Realizing going through it a few times,
versus that one's the one I wrote in
a flurry, in a theory one evening,
being angry at my environment and
answer accessible.
So they're kinda a little bit different,
so
the first thing we're gonna kinda start
with is just a very little bit of bashing.
We're gonna kinda slowly build up this
script, so let's just start right here,
we're gonna run the actual, let's see
all we need to write the actual script.
So we're gonna start first by creating,
let's see,
we're just gonna create the dev
environment first, so the dev environment,
again, is everything
surrounding your development.
So I want to be able to effectively create
a way to be able to build NeoVim from
source or build anything I want or
install anything I want.
All right so you can create this project
directory anywhere you deem fit,
we're gonna create a run script or
we're gonna create a script called run.
You technically can name it
whatever you want you wanna make
that script executable, and
you can open up your favorite text editor,
which is obviously NeoVim,
maybe it's something else.
And so we're going to start simple, let's
code up something that allows us to get
the current directory and
take in one argument for filtering tasks,
like that's it,
that's all we're going to start with.
So what I'm gonna do here is I'm
gonna go back to my personal here and
I'm gonna make der,
I'm gonna just call it, Dev-n, all right.
And we're gonna do a little Dev-n and
in here we're gonna start
building out this whole process.
So I'm gonna create a script called run,
and in here you do the classic, so,
if you don't know what this does,
this just tells your this just tells.
Whenever you execute this, it says,
hey, here's the program, you kinda,
that is gonna be run right here, so
this is called the Shebang, right?
I have it backwards,
there we go, it's a shebang,
this is now a bash script,
when I run it, it'll run.
If you don't know how to make
something executable on your system,
if you're, on the old Linux side, and
I believe this also works perfectly fine
on Mac as well, you just do a chmod.
It's like a Michael Jackson move, you just
chmod it and boom, chmod your script, now,
it runs, okay, fantastic.
And so if I go in here and
go echo "hello",
now that I have this thing ran,
I can go run, it runs, so
just Chmod plus x run script,
that's all you gotta do, it now runs.
And you always have to usually do
this because it's not in your path,
you're just executing it from
this directory, all right.
I just assume that everybody
knows things like path,
is everyone here fine with the word path?
Like, when I say that,
no one here is confused, okay, good.
Because that's one of those things where
there's a lot of assumed knowledge,
and if you don't know what it is,
it could be problematic.
So for those that don't know,
just in case the path your computer,
even Windows has this.
It's just a series of places that it looks
for a series of directories that it looks
into to see if there's
anything that's executable.
So when you have something like this
that's runnable, say, dev, commit,
or dev end.
That's because somewhere on my system
I said, hey, this directory contains
executables, and in that directory
contained something called dev end.
And when I run it, it can run all right,
so let's program this thing up.
So getting the current directory in bash
is a bit awkward, and I often have to
look this one up over and over and
over again, cuz it's just so bizarre.
But what you're gonna wanna do is
you're gonna wanna get the dirname of,
let's see, what is it?
It's dirname of BASH_SOURCE[0],
yeah, classic, right?
So you're gonna change directory
into the bash source zero, and
then get the present working directory,
bam, first try, every try.
It's just like a little
trick that is a part of it,
I know it's like one of these
one liners and bash again,
this is the 400 you know,
sharp edges that bash exists with.
You just memorize them and when you
memorize them, they become pretty easy to
kind of work with this is one of those,
and it kinda makes sense, right?
There's this thing called Bash 0 kind of
like ARGs V in a node program that tells
you where you're at.
The first two arguments is
the thing is where you're at and
I believe your first executable,
which is node.
And so then this one just says hey, this
is where I'm at, so then I just change,
I get the name of it and
then I change to it and
then I get the present working directory.
So pretty easy, awesome, and then I
also wanna go like this filter equals,
let's just go $1, and so
this is the first argument that's
passed into the script, okay, awesome.
And let's go like this echo, just to
really make sure we get this all scripter,
and of course, a filter, all right,
we're gonna just start off easy.
If I execute run, you'll see there it is,
I'm in home/primeagen/personal/dev-env,
perfectly, that's exactly what I wanted.
And if I go foobarbaz, you see first
argument foo bar and baz, okay,
fantastic, we're looking good.
This is everything we want, somehow we're
actually gonna build something that
hydrates your entire
environment starting from here.
I know a lot of you, I know there's some
doubters, I can feel the doubters going,
no, I don't know if we can do this,
all right.
So there we go, look at that practically
the exact same code, awesome.
So let's see, but
how do we run our set of scripts, right?
So now it's time to actually do
the running side of things, so
this is actually a pretty
simple script to do.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do the
following, is that there is a, we can do,
we're gonna use the command find,
as if everyone's not familiar with find
you provide it a directory and
some arguments.
And it will grab everything out of
that directory and recursively, and
it will hand you back a list of items
separated by new line effectively,
is how you can think about it.
And so,
it's pretty straightforward to use, so
what I'm gonna do is I'm actually gonna
change into my scripts directory.
Remember when you execute
something from in here,
it doesn't actually change your directory,
it starts a new process.
That process has a new directory, so
you don't have to worry about that,
if you were to source this file,
it would change your directory.
So don't source it,
obviously just execute it, there we go, so
I'm gonna change into this directory,
and I'm gonna find on runs.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna find
everything inside this runs directory that
is an executable, and then I'm also gonna
not allow it to search recursively deep.
So all I have to do is go in here and
go like this, max depth,
if you're not familiar with find,
it's actually pretty nice, max depth one,
min depth one, I know, it's kinda weird.
If you don't do min depth one, you'll also
get like dots because the dot directory is
also a directory which is yourself.
So, min depth max depth one and then do
executable and type file, there we go.
So this will find every single thing
that is a file that's executable within
the runs directory and what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna go like this, scripts equals,
and I'm just gonna surround it.
There we go, so now we have all
the scripts, fantastic, for
script in scripts,
this is that fantastic batch language,
and I actually like it,
I actually prefer this with words.
I actually like the do and done,
as opposed to square by brace,
call me old fashioned,
but I actually like,
I like that style, I like tokens that
are forced to require start and stops.
I think it looks nicer, no,
this old fashioned me, right?
Okay, so now all we have to do is filter
out anything we don't want to execute, and
then we have to execute the things that
aren't filtered out should be pretty
straight forward.
So if you're not familiar with
the old grep, we can use that as well.
So what we can do is we can say,
hey, we're gonna echo filter,
we're gonna echo out our
filter command right here.
And then we're gonna want to or
we're gonna echo, sorry,
we're gonna echo out the script, and we're
gonna check to see, does grep contain it.
Q means quiet,
it's not gonna print anything,
V means Everything it's
gonna inverse match it.
So instead of trying to find this match,
it's gonna try to not find the match.
Do you not contain this value.
So does this script not
contain this filter?
If it does not contain the filter,
then we should be able to go in here,
forgot the little semicolon.
Going right there, right here.
We can go and continue.
And just to make sure we understand,
I'll go like this echo filtering script,
fantastic.
And if we have it, then we'll go script.
We'll just execute the script,
it'll just run, awesome, right?
We got everything we
needed done right here.
And you know what?
We probably would like to do is we
probably want to actually
create this directory now and
maybe create at least one or
two test scripts, right?
That probably be a good next plan.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
jump over, by the way, if you,
if you feel like you wanna
catch up with the code.
I also have it on the course website.
I'm gonna take some, potentially some
unconventional approaches to this runs and
And I'm gonna go neovim.
And in here I'll do the old shebang,
a bang, user, bin and bash.
There we go.
I'm gonna make it executable, and I'm just
gonna go echo hello from neovim for now.
Keep it pretty simple.
All right, good.
All right, so now, if we've done this
correctly, it should only find one script,
which should be neovim, because that's
the only executable script inside the runs
directory and it and we should be
able to check for our filters.
And if that's that,
then we should be good to go.
So I should be able to go like this.
If I run foobarbaz,
you'll notice that it filtered neovim.
It did not, in fact, run it.
Found it but it filtered it.
If I remove that it should say hello
from neovim because I ran the script.
Okay fantastic, hopefully people
are seeing where this is going.
If I go neovim, of course neovim is
inside of neovim so it will match that.
It's kind of just like
a fuzzy slight finder.
So there we go so we have kind of like
the basic framework set up for us to be
able to run any script right here, and
it can run an entire directory of scripts.
So that means every single thing we want
to install that has basic configuration,
whatever we can actually set up a series
of those scripts for each one of them.
So my neovim installation process,
though, what was it?
Seven, eight lines that are required to.
To do install neovim.
It can have its own script that I know
just works, and it will just run.
And I can even get clever and
use like environment variables
to select the version.
You could go nuts with
all these things for now,
I'm just not gonna do all those
things in here, fantastic.
So let's just jump back down here.
So looks like I've pretty much
Written the exact same code.
All right, awesome,
my echo statements not as nice.
Quick notion for those that don't
know the difference between these,
you probably see single
bracket comparisons in bash,
double bracket comparisons in bash, and
then just no bracket comparisons in bash.
Why does all this happen?
Well, the single bracket one is very
it's called post compliance testing.
It has its own set of syntax.
You'll notice it doesn't use
things like greater than.
I don't know the exact reason for
all, like why this one,
it's an older style one.
It has more edge cases.
This one is a little bit nicer.
I just assume it's because it's meant to
be written right on the command line.
I believe there's something called test
in which you can pass this in and it'll
do a test on it and return one or zero
as the exit code if it fails or passes.
The double bracket is more modern, so you
can use something like equal equal, but
it only works in bash environments.
And then, of course, this one right here,
which actually just executes that,
and depending on the X code,
is how if the if statement passes or not.
So a X code of zero means, yay,
we can go into this if statement.
X code of not zero means we're not gonna
go into it because there was an error.
So pretty straightforward
with those things.
All right, back to the program.
What if we want to be able to
run our installation scripts?
But we don't want, maybe we want to test
to make sure we're not crazy, right?
Why?
Even if we have to do some deleting and
all that, we don't want to just destroy
ourselves, we probably want like,
a dry run feature, right?
All right, this is pretty easy to do,
so let's just hop back up here and
we're gonna do a little bit of changing.
I'm gonna set my filter to nothing.
I'm gonna create a dry
that's equal to one.
And we're gonna do a little while our,
what is it?
While our amount of arguments, dollar
sign pound, dollar sign number count,
right, dollar sign argument
count is greater than zero.
We're gonna go in here and we're gonna
do like a little bit of checking, okay?
You have to par, you have to parse
your own command line arguments.
It's not that bad to really do long as
you don't have very complex arguments,
but you can imagine I can do this.
If the first argument equals dry, well,
then I can make, oopsies, dry equals one.
We definitely want that to be zero.
We can then say dry equals one.
There we go.
Dry is now true when this happens,
fantastic.
Else, if it's not that I can
just say filter equals one.
We're gonna keep it simple.
We only allow a singular filtered term.
I'm not gonna create
an array of filtered terms.
There you go, right, let's just start
simply, you can fix those things later,
they are not that hard, right?
And then just do a shift.
All shifts does is simply removes
the first argument from the argument list.
So we're just gonna go through here and
pop off every single argument,
look through it.
That way you don't have to provide dry
as like the first argument, it could be
the second argument, you don't have to
be clever with any of these things.
We just take them, parse them,
bada bing bada boom.
Next, let's build out
a function called log.
Now I like doing this just because,
especially with dry runs,
I don't want to do this, dance of trying
to like do a bunch of if statements with,
this thing's dry or not dry, run.
I don't know which one.
So I try to remove all of that and instead
just run it through a couple functions.
So this one's pretty easy if dry equals 1.
>> ThePrimeagen: Then I want to go
echo dry run, and then I'll do this.
That means print out everything
that was passed to me.
Dollar sign at is all of them.
Else we can just print out all of them,
right?
So that is now,
it just kind of operates like echo.
We go down here, I can now use log.
If it is dry, it'll say a dry run.
If it's not dry, it will not be a dry run,
fantastic, right?
Now let's do the exact same thing,
except for
I'm gonna have execute if it's execute or,
let's see.
Let's go like this.
First we're gonna go log and
then we'll do execute with everything.
So we'll log to let you know you're
trying to execute something.
And then if it's a dry,
we'll go return else.
Or we can take that, bring that down.
Else we'll just execute everything,
fantastic.
Yeah, there we go.
So we have these two little
wrapper functions to kind of help.
If you're not familiar with this,
that's okay.
Okay, they're unusual, they're weird.
These are like one of those bashisms,
again,
that once you learn a couple bashisms,
it just helps you.
And so this just simply will get it so
that I can have protective logging and
protective execute based on this dry flag,
yes or no.
So now I can simply log that,
change the directories, find all this,
echo that script, I can log that out,
and I can execute this.
Pretty nice, right?
That feels pretty nice.
It should let me know
everything's going on.
So now when I rerun this and
I add the word dry, you can see, okay,
we were gonna do this and
we were gonna do this,
but notice that it didn't actually
run the hello from neovim.
It just said we're gonna do it.
So it's like, nice.
Okay, so now I can make sure that my
scripts don't accidently destructively
destroy myself.
I can see what they're gonna do,
and then I can run it.
It's always really fantastic to plan for
that, because or else, life kind of sucks.
There you go.
Hello from the event.
So I always try to build that in
as one of the first things I do.
Now we've effectively created
something that you can now bring in
every piece of software you need
on your system with a single x.
Execution, obviously, bringing this down.
You could do a bunch of different ways,
you could bring this down.
You can put this up on Git, and
you're just gonna have to manually
get cloned down this directory,
and then just run, run, and
then it will start installing everything.
It's not that hard to get your system up
and running, but I assume you can type for
at least two minutes to get to the point
of getting everything installed.
And I think the thing that I
really like about this, and
the reason why I like it this way is,
a, it's super simple to understand.
What are we at?
44 lines?
This is not a lot of bash,
there's not a lot to it,
it's pretty straightforward stuff.
You could make it more clever
if you really, really wanted to.
But if I had another thing,
let's just pretend, I don't know,
we had something else, foobar, right?
It doesn't really matter
what the other thing is.
If I go in here and
I have bin/env bash, and
I echo "hello from foobar",
you'll notice that when I run this,
we should be able to just do,
did I make it executable?
I didn't make it executable, there we go.
Look at that, protecting myself.
You can even see it's filtering for
foobar, it's gonna run that,
it's gonna run neovim.
If I simply just run, you'll notice
that it runs both hello from Neovim,
hello from foobar.
It's pretty simple, it's a very easy
way to be able to have each one of your
installation scripts for each one of
your little libraries that you want.
You can have your dev set that's just
like pseudo app, install, jq, CMake,
build-essentials, all the crap
that you want, Python,
all that, it can just be right there.
So I just really appreciate this way
cuz it's very understandable for me.
And it's something that if I want to make
different, I can make it different easily.
And so there we go, there is step one of
why I think I like mine better than yours.
Cuz I don't have any
configuration in there.
I simply have one simple convention.
Put an executable script
in a single directory,
it will now work every single time.
If I wanna filter it, I filter it.
There we go.
Did I write very similar code?
I think I wrote identical code.
It's like I've done it before, high five.
All right, awesome,
boom, now we have this,
we can easily set up our environment,
it's fairly extensible.
You can add as many scripts as you'd like,
you can filter them.
You can even edit the script to
be exactly the way you want.
Maybe you want multiple filters,
you, Tapper, you could.
I do.
I'm not even gonna say you can't,
you could do that,
it's just I don't want that.
So I'm just not gonna do it.
All right, so some of the cons,
obviously, bash kinda sucks.
Not gonna lie to you.
What is this?
This just feels funny coming
from any programming language.
Why is a string of $@
making things execute?
I don't know, it's bash, right?
There's some bashes and that's like,
I'm gonna take that now, execute it,
because it's in the right order.
I don't really get that.
I haven't spent enough time learning
all the ins and out of bash.
I just know how to use it like a sword,
right?
Keeping things up to
date is easy to forget.
And so make sure that as you install
things, if you like what they are,
that's why I put a filter in there.
Is that, actually, anytime I add something
new to my system that I want around for
a while, I go right to this directory,
add a new script, and it's like, hey,
I now want jq.
Here's how I wanna install it,
this is why I wanna install it, boom,
now it's part of that.
And then I always run things through this.
I just keeps me in the habit of keeping
everything the same, it's always the same.
I can just see with the glance of an eye
all the things that I like to have
personally installed on my system.
Making it OS independent, again,
still pain in the ass though,
probably not as easy as
Ansible in that sense.
But at the same time, I could just
make run Mac and bada bing, bada boom,
slightly different, and it all works out.
Because most of those things
will probably be very similar.
Like, installing Neovim is gonna probably
be identical between Mac and Linux, maybe.
Maybe it's not, maybe it blows up.
Maybe you can just use GitHub
to download the tarball and
then just don't have to worry
about it at all, and life's easy.
Other thoughts on dry run,
you could technically,
if you really want to make your
script as extensible as possible,
you could export dry run and
then run those scripts.
And that way,
the things underneath have access to this
variable called dry run that now equals 1.
So they can just show you what
you do inside of each subscript.
I find that to be extremely cumbersome,
big pain in practice, so
I didn't wanna go that way.
I just wanted to say, hey, I would
have done this, but I didn't do it.
I don't wanna have to have every single
script be filled with all these if
statements and everything.
That just sounds like a lot of work and
it's not work I wanna do.